# Log

### Monday, July 11th 2016

Yesterday I figured out how to encrypt blocks in vim, so this is my new
notebook.

-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
Version: GnuPG v1

jA0EBwMCyWPEfV70t91g0kwBD0FKY7aP9C8MP4LdvO2S6pzsQMLRmGUSk/BSpidT
e+fdWq0kf77du6B4Czzdv5l4iULwpTGAHzkLwbN2u2mOX9f+4oUXHevYluWQ
=CKnj
-----END PGP MESSAGE-----

Today I haven't done much.  I took client calls and went to the bank to deposit
the Nectar M1 check.  I think in my head that was enough.

Tomorrow I'm hoping to code outside and do some writing about that.

Not a productive day.

### Tuesday, July 12th 2016

Already well into July.  Having trouble / feeling unwilling to work on Montage
client work.  The 'developer experience' on that project is not as good.
Hopefully I can get three hours in and move things along.  I really want to do
32 hours this week to get ready for next week.

Our goal isn't to bill lots of hours, it's to do really amazing stuff, stuff I
can tell my kids about.  Doing business well is interesting as a timeless,
beautiful thing.

Have contract from iHM.  Today was better, productivity-wise, tomorrow I need to 

### Wednesday, July 13th 2016

Logged about four billable hours, messing with CSS for Artdrop and building
email functionality for Nectar.  Signed/submitted iHM contract and read more
about contract negotiation.  Bought plane ticket to defcon.  Had dinner with
Max/Zachary and discussed longer term plans which sort of wore me out, putting
those things into spoken work, and makes me want to focus on work and personal
life.

Max's point about wanting things to sort of run themselves / minimizing stress
is a very good one.  Being busy for the sake of 'being busy businessperson' is
sort of silly.

-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----
Version: GnuPG v1

jA0EBwMCR9OWJp4g6aVg0sABAaO9lxurdbZj1e4VyiHu4yiooQyMIQ9NgplSRY4Q
/OhbyrihutV4DtHd4xZ2bAryORRls54jHsr88gbWF38HNrm4ueIbvFUON1/sjEBn
cc1YBebdeUDl+BjU3QuWa3ppfBCUMQDfvYprdPwIvAQOxRkXXe+BCNP1yuIRkAws
EpwtYbB3xqPy5G6pGyPnVVGFbhee8lHyMtGg73z5BKiYVafHUpGt9H5usNsts4v9
9IxnJkfwmfnyFuIVy6C2CmQUaQ==
=0NUv
-----END PGP MESSAGE-----

### Thursday, July 14th 2016

Need to make presentation for the ReactCamp thing.  Wish the event was better
organized, seems fishy.  Not exactly sure what should be prioritized today in
terms of client work.

### Monday, July 18th 2016

First day at iHM went well.  Feel satisfied with their technical level and the
coherence of the team.  Both Zachary and I seem a bit ill-adjusted to working in
an office for eight hours straight: found myself 'looking at the clock',
figuratively.

Looking forward to lunch meeting w/ other consultancies, very exciting and
useful.  I draw a lot of energy from people like that.  

Bought two nice shirts from opening ceremony.  At bar now (not a bar I like very
much), hopefully will get some work done on Montage.

### Wednesday, July 20th 2016

Met with Screen yesterday.  Very cool to meet a symmetric group of young people
from Taiwan/China who are scheming and dreaming while staying aware of beauty.
Enjoying my new clothing.  Getting well into the feel for the iHM work, still
happy with the team we are working with.  Signing lease for new office today: it
is extremely charming, I think it potentially has the 'quality without a name',
at least from the outside.  Today I will see inside.

Somewhat tired: last night worked on Montage.  Some bug that is based on a shaky
third party service.  Also I am making $40 less an hour on that project.
Hopefully Max will be able to take over the work there soon, it's a codebase he
knows.

### Thursday, July 21st 2016

Last day of first week at iHM.  Moving into new office tomorrow.  Last night
went to a 'super meetup' that included Code Drink Talk Bushwick.  I met Michael
there, he recognized Computer Lab from my name tag.  I really enjoyed talking to
him, he told me a lot of interesting things in an engaging way.  He is 'on
leave' from Thoughtworks.  He is the best example I've met of a developer
working in 'civic engagement'.

### Monday, July 25th 2016

Sort of inefficient day at iHR.  Had dinner with Zachary and Rob, talked about
money, and felt silly and cardboard-like doing so.  Had a nice lunch with
Zachary.  Got paid for Artdrop.  Feel guilty about Montage...should just make
some time, push some commits, that will hold things over until Max comes back.
Dealings with Vice on an iOS app of theirs, ... , seems unprofessional on their
end.  Getting anything done seems to require a lot of professionalism.  I think
I'm focusing too much on client work.  Need to spend more time planning, writing
or doing open source.

### Tuesday, July 26th 2016

Another pretty inefficient day at iHR.  Had to make more changes to past work
based on specs that weren't communicated before build, even after asking.  The
good thing is that it is good practice for working with forks: that requires
another sort of flow that should become habit soon, which will help with my
goals of getting into open source.  Learning the whole Jira/Agile flow is a
whole other thing in itself that is also valuable.  So, the cracks in the
process are starting to show but at least I am learning them.  

Feel the need to check back into earlier goals and stuff I feel is important.
Month one of Q3 is nearing a close and there's been decent progress, but I
haven't necessarily been focused on making the goals happen.  And then I also
have (a very short) list of goals outside of the goals for the company.
Basically: writing.   I just looked at the analytics for college memoir:
basically zero except for spikes of referral spam.  Sad!  But okay.

I think the level that will feel good is finding a way to do iHM, goals, AND
other client work.  In that order.  Obviously I want to do other client work for
money and to make them happy, and I will use that motivation to motivate myself
to do the goals.
