# Feyerabend

Feyerabend's driver slowed the car to a crawl, trying to find her new address in
the dark.  Feyerabend was very conscious of the sounds of the hot car, the tires
on the pavement, and her own small movements.

The driver stopped in front an academic-looking building, set back in a stand of
oak trees.  He showed Feyerabend around her new apartment, explaining obvious
things about the fixtures.

Once Feyerabend was alone, she brought her bag into the largest bedroom.  She
felt like she was on an exciting vacation, even though she would be living in
this place for a year, in Warsaw.

---

The next day was warm and summery.  Feyerabend decided to go to a nearby outdoor
swimming park.  She was supposed to spend her first week in Warsaw 'getting
situated', not working.  An email from Addison Chen had specified this: that she
had already done so much work for the project, and that she should try to relax.
Feyerabend sat on a towel in the bristly green grass, reading a novel from the
airport.  

As she watched families grilling and jumping in the pool, she thought ahead to
meeting people at the lab on Monday.  It would probably be okay: Feyerabend was
used to meeting colleagues from the Internet, and there would be a lot to talk
about.  In Feyerabend's experience, most people were not surprised that she was
trans: they could tell from the picture on her website.  

---

Feyerabend made an effort to explore her new city, knowing that she'd quickly
fall into a very limited routine when she started work.  Warsaw was pastel and
grey, and somehow reminded Feyerabend of being a teenager.  

For ten years, Feyerabend had studied formal grammar at a few different
universities.  She read and thought as hard as she could, and avoided the hype.
When Feyerabend's classmates went out to jobs, they always treated her with a
bit of pity, asking questions like "what type of applications do you see for
your work?"  But Feyerabend was determined to not waste her life on noise and
vanity.

The moment that Feyerabend received an email from Addison Chen, thanking her for all of her
work on the direct semantic IO project, and inviting her to come work in Warsaw,
that was the best moment of Feyerabend's life.

The email from Addison Chen, invitIt was the best moment of her life.
Feyerabend knew that she would never feel truly useless again.  The semantic IO
project was valuable, and she had made valuable contributions. 

She drank at dinner alone, and gave the cab driver a slip of paper with her
address on it.  Back in her strange apartment, she looked at herself in the
mirror and quieted old dysphoric feelings. 

<hr>

Shortly after sunrise on Monday morning, a driver picked Feyerabend up at her
apartment.  Feyerabend fell asleep in the car, startling awake on arrival.  She
was led into a marble building in a glass atrium, and shown directly to her new
office.

It was a room with a bookshelf, a coffee table, and a set of excellent digital
windows.  Feyerabend spent a few minutes organizing the things in her bag.

Someone pushed open the door, and stuck their head in.

"Leah?" the person said.  He had a French accent.

"Hello," said Feyerabend, standing up.  

The person introduced himself as a researcher, and suggested they go to a
meeting room.

Talk shifted quickly to their work.  The researcher mostly worked on the
project's hardware, but told Feyerabend that he had read through all of
proposals, and thought they were very well-considered. 

"Do you have any insight into whether I'll be involved with the hardware aspect
of the project?" asked Feyerabend.

"Well, you'll be working with the hardware almost constantly, that's why you're
here."

"It's not an area I have much expertise in," said Feyerabend, somewhat
excitedly. 

"We've developed a fairly straightforward user interface for the CBI, I'll be
interested in your feedback on it."

"Definitely, yeah," said Feyerabend.

"Why don't we go take a look at it?"

"The CBI device?  Now?" 

"Sure," said the French researcher.  "Let's not waste any time.  There's some
safety training you'll have to do before you actually use it, though."

On the way to see the machine, the French researcher showed her the break room,
containing only a refrigerator and a coffee machine. 

Feyerabend was very excited to spend a whole year with a medical-grade
computer-brain interface.  At university, she had worked with transcranial
magnetic stimulation devices, and an Internet friend had once shown her a
focused ultrasound effector designed for use on rats, but the project's hardware
offered a whole new realm of opportunities.  Recent tests with the project's
focused ultrasound device had suggested spatial and temporaral resolutions
orders of magnitude higher than the legacy devices Feyerabend had worked with.

"Here it is!" said the French researcher, opening an unmarked door.  "We have a
few others, but this is the latest iteration."

The room contained a hacked-open MRI sled, stripped of its white medical
plastic. The focused ultrasound transducers were mounted on the inside of the
MRI tube, with copper wires leading to a server room.

The researcher gave her a tour of the machine's components, and Feyerabend
struggled to not complete his sentences.  As he was finishing up, a middle-aged
woman came into the room, saying "Hello!" loudly to announce herself.

"Leah, meet Addison," said the French researcher.

"Wow," said Feyerabend, shaking Addison's hand lightly.  "Great to meet to you
in person, finally."  

Feyerabend dimly recognized that Addison was attractive, something she had not
expected.  (...)  Feyerabend took chemical sterilization medication, drugs that
she had initially purchased from the darknet, but now had a prescription for.

It was quickly obvious why the distributed autonomous organization that governed
the project had decided to allocate so many resources to Addison: she had the
almost garrulous enthusiasm required to effectively herd neuroscientists,
electrical engineers, and programmers.  As Addision outlined the plan for the
next few weeks, Feyerabend was reminded of a busy but sociable dentist.

Tomorrow morning, Feyerabend would start testing the CBI machine, and would have
a week to simply play around with it, under the supervision of Addison herself.
Then, they could devise a research plan.

<hr>

That evening, Feyerabend treated herself to a celebratory meal at a restaurant
near her apartment.  Work seemed so unbelievably perfect.  She tried to think
back to the last time she had been truly unhappy.  As she waited for her food,
Feyerabend used her phone to sign up for things: fitness classes, a few expat
meetup groups, a recurring vacation week, and automated bill payments.  It was
hard to imagine being unhappy ever again.  Humanity had progressed to a point
where nothing could ruin Feyerabend's life, except for a few thorny edge cases. 

At home, Feyerabend had a beer, and fell asleep.

<hr>

Feyerabend brought a notebook to the CBI room the next morning.  Addison arrived
moments after.

"Ready?" said Addison.

"Yup."

"Okay, I think Eric already has everything up and running.  Could you quickly
get into the calibration pose?"

The inside of the new MRI scanner was almost silent.  

"Okay.  Here we go," said Addison's voice, from a speaker somewhere.
Feyerabend's heart was racing.

"We'll start with a test pulse...now."

Feyerabend experienced something entirely new.

"What was that?" laughed Feyerabend, knowing exactly what it was.  So it worked!
Of course it did.

"A qualia!" said Addison, also laughing.

What had she just experienced?  Feyerabend tried to describe it to herself.  It
was totally abstract: it didn't remind her of anything she had experienced
before.  It was just there, and distinct.  The only thing that seemed
comparable, at least in terms of novelty, was when she had experienced her first
orgasm around the age of thirteen.  But this was a much quieter, more precise
version of that confused feeling.  

"Wow," said Feyerabend.  "Got it."

"Okay," said Addison.

"Okay, okay, let's call that one '0', just for fun," said Addision.  "Here comes
'1'."

Feyerabend experienced an entirely different quiet little sensation.

"And '0' again."

"Got it," said Feyerabend.  There was no question of confusing the two qualia.

Addison slowly transmitted a binary sequence of qualia encoding the ASCII
characters 'HI'.  When Addison finished, Feyerabend laughed gleefully.

<hr>

The focused ultrasound effector was capable of producing at least a million
different qualia, consistently, thousands of times a second.  Experiments with
human cortical plasticity had shown that novel qualia could be interpreted
semantically. 

At lunch the next Monday, Addison explained the obvious: it was Feyerabend's job
to develop a useful set of symbol groundings for the qualia, so that they could
be used as a high-bandwidth direct semantic communication channel between the
computer and brain, the first useful Computer Brain Interface.

"I'd love to tell you that this will just be a prototype, but my feeling is that
whatever you develop, it will be widely adopted.  Of course, it'll be adapted
and improved, but I think you should try to create a system with strong
conceptual clarity and extensibility.  Does that make sense to you?"

"Yeah, totally."

<hr>

The first thing Feyerabend developed was a set of qualia that could be used to
describe the formal structure of a language: words related to grammar, syntax,
and morphology.  A remote team of programmers helped her develop a training
program that taught users to associate the correct qualia with the concepts that
Feyerabend had chosen.

Feyerabend was then able to partially describe her plans for the qualia language
using qualia.  After Addison and the French researcher spent about a week using
the training program, they could go into the machine and recieve a very rapid
and concise outline of Feyerabend's language structure.

What was happening in Feyerabend's real life?  She spent the majority of each
day inside of an MRI machine, thinking, and vocally telling the computer to
store her ideas as qualia codepoints.  She limited herself to nine hour days.
They were nine hours of true work, probably the most she'd ever consistently
worked in her life.  She started using a chat application to learn Polish, and
indulged in endless small talk.  It was a familiar situation for Feyerabend: she
didn't really feel lonely, because she spent the day working with people that
she had massive respect and affection for.

<hr>

Feyerabend began to develop a set of "qualia radicals", meant to span the space
of current human experience and allow for almost limitless expansion.  The
symbols referring to morphological combination could be used along with other
symbols to create new meaning.  There was no issue of creating an overly verbose
language: the bandwidth of the CBI allowed the listener to almost instantly
comprehend a long sequence of qualia. 
 
This part of the project felt almost silly, a picture language that a child
might develop, creating a special word for everything.  In meetings, they used
academic language to describe the updates to the training program they needed to
make in order to extend the language beyond an abstract meta-language.
Feyerabend started to feel fear and frustration, the first negative feelings
she'd experienced while working on the project.  One of her articles of faith
was that there was success in smallness, and that the small worked.  She felt
inadequate.

Addision rescued her, interrupting a meeting that had dragged on past sunset.

"Okay, let's be real here, okay?" said Addision.  "What we're about to do now is
crazy ambitious.  It sounds stupid, almost.  Like what is this program going to
look like?  We to get people to associate like, trees, with an arbitrary qualia.
What are we going to do?  Show them a picture of a tree and then fire the
qualia?  That's basically how it works now, right?"

There was a contemplative silence.

"This part of things isn't going to be precise, or clean, or recursive.  We need
to map the world onto an a sixteen-bit codepoint plane.  It's going to get
messy.  Someday, this is going to be a thing that kids use.  But we have to deal
with it as adults."

Feyerabend picked out a few of the weirder programmers involved in the project,
and set them up in their own room.  They did drugs, stayed up late, and played a
lot in virtual reality.  But progress started to happen.  Feyerabend distanced
herself from development, and used herself as the test subject.  A number of
special displays, speakers, and various experimental sensory inputs had been
mounted inside the MRI.  It looked ugly.

The first thing symbol they grounded was trees.  Videos, scents, sounds of
trees.  Feyerabend thought back to the trees in her backyard growing up, the
last trees she had ever really thought seriously about, besides the abstract
syntax ones.  Trees.

Then ocean.  Lake.  Void.  Heaven.  Heaven was kind of corny, rendered as some
Christian thing, and then grafted in clips from other language, incense.  More
concepts.  Then the whole cycle again.

Feyerabend had lunch with the qualia radical training program team.

"That was interesting," she said.

"This is fucking nuts," said one of the audio-visual guys.  "I feel like I'm
being paid to create the biggest vaporware ever."

"Well, hopefully it'll work, and we will figure out how to make it useful."

It did work.  After a week with the training program, Feyerabend could perfectly
associate 256 qualia radicals with her own private version of each concept.
Real world, concrete concepts, if that made sense.  The programmers excitedly
encoded qualia series for the sense of Genesis, xxx, songs by Rush, every
bombastic thing they could find.  On Friday afternoon, Feyerabend listened to
them all, in less than a minute, and cried.

"Guys, it's really amazing," she said.  "There aren't many words yet, but it's
just as clear as my grammar stuff.  I wish we had more machines so you could try
it out."

Feyerabend started spending more and more time in the MRI machine, alone
sometimes, asking the computer for various items transpiled into qualia via a
rough program someone contributed. Now in the world there was the wordless voice
of her thoughts, the swell and grind of her emotions, and this new third fast
whisper.  

<hr>

It was summer again.  To celebrate finishing the first round of experiments with
the CBI, the Warsaw project team took a trip to the ocean.  The group avoided
the beach during the day, only making a trip to the watermelon stand in the
middle of the afternoon.  Feyerabend ordered for the group while they stood
blinking in the sun, watching waves of heat rising over thousands of families on
the sand.  Feyerabend spent the rest of the day on the ground floor of the guest
house, reading a book in a wicker chair.

Right before sunset, Addison invited Feyerabend for a walk down the beach.  It
was now empty except for a group of art students photographing a woman dressed
in mermaid costume. 

Feyerabend and Addison took off their sandals, and walked through the surf.
Feyerabend's heart sung as seawater rushed under her feet.

Addision was talking about the paper they would soon write, describing the
successful use of the training program with outside volunteers.  These students
were now able now receive information from the machine almost instantly, like
Feyerabend.  

The paper would show that the CBI users were able to perform knowledge-worker
tasks much faster than peers who did not have access to the CBI device.  It
would be a landmark paper.

"We can easily have it done by the end of the summer, I think, and present at
the ACM conference in Montreal this fall," said Addison.

Feyerabend was quiet.  It was obvious that Addison was saying this in
celebration, not looking for feedback.  

"I can't thank you enough, Leah," said Addison, after a minute.  "I don't think
this would have worked out so well without you."

"There's a lot left to do," said Feyerabend. 

"Leah, are you okay?  You've done...so much."

"I can't wait to talk back to it," said Feyerabend.

"Soon," said Addision.  "By the end of the decade."

"So have you, Addison."

"But what about *me*," said Leah, laughing through her nose.  "What about
*you*?"

Addison sat down in the folding chair next to Leah.  Leah looked up at her.
Addison seemed to be consciously shifting a number of mental gears, and for a
moment seemed harder, and then softer.  She no longer had the demeanor of an
effective, social dentist, but looked more liked a confused student staring at a
problem on a whiteboard. 

"We've been working together for what, five years, in various forms?  Right?"

"Yeah," said Leah.
A few weeks ago, Addison had asked Feyerabend to call her 'Addy'.  They were
becoming friends.  Feyerabend felt different.

There were a variety of different proposals that would allow the CBI to work
untethered from an MRI.  

As Feyerabend's work progressed, a sinister undertone of physical dysphoria was
building.  In a distant way, Feyerabend missed her home, and constantly thought
of her ex-girlfriend, a person who she knew she didn't actually like.  The
elegance and importance of her work was making her life feel shoddy.  

Feyerabend felt that she had finally shifted from a mode of 'becoming' to a mode
of 'being'.  At work, she was starting to lead a fairly considerable team, and
felt competent almost al of the time.

Feyerabend felt unusually alone when she got back to her room in the guest
house.  She knew that she had the option of drinking and playing cards with her
colleagues downstairs, but consciously decided against it.  She comforted
herself with the fact that in her old age, it would probably be possible to fall
fully and deeply in love with a computer program.  She did deserve love, she
knew.  Feyerabend fell asleep listening to the sound of waves and thinking about
Addison Chen.

