# Feyerabend

Feyerabend's driver slowed the car to a crawl, trying to find her new address in
the dark.  Feyerabend was very conscious of the sounds of the hot car, the tires
on the pavement, and her own small movements.

The driver stopped in front an academic-looking building, set back in a stand of
oak trees.  He showed Feyerabend around her new apartment, explaining obvious
things about the fixtures.

Once Feyerabend was alone, she brought her bag into the largest bedroom.  She
felt like she was on an exciting vacation, even though she would be living in
this place for a year, in Warsaw.

<hr>

The next day was warm and summery.  Feyerabend decided to go to a nearby outdoor
swimming park.  She was supposed to spend her first week in Warsaw 'getting
situated', not working.  An email from Addison Chen had specified this: that she
had already done so much work for the project, and that she should try to relax.
Feyerabend sat on a towel in the bristly green grass, reading a novel from the
airport.  

As she watched families grilling and jumping in the pool, she thought ahead to
meeting people at the lab on Monday.  It would probably be okay: Feyerabend was
used to meeting colleagues from the Internet, and there would be a lot to talk
about.  In Feyerabend's experience, most people were not surprised that she was
trans: they could tell from the picture on her website.  

<hr>

Feyerabend made an effort to explore her new city, knowing that she'd quickly
fall into a limited routine when she started work.  Warsaw was pastel and grey,
and somehow reminded Feyerabend of being a teenager.  

Having a week of free time was weird.  Feyerabend was used to being almost
perfectly focused, trying to learn everything she could about formal grammar.
She had studied grammar at a number of different universities for about eight
years.  When her classmates went out to jobs, they always treated her with a bit
of pity, asking questions like "what type of applications do you see for your
work?"  But deep down, Feyerabend was certain that most jobs were stupid, just
vanity, noise.

When she finally left academia, she put most of her effort into independent
research and correspondence on the Interet.  She got involved with a number of
interesting projects.  Just a few weeks after getting a 'real job', she had
recieved an email from Addision Chen, inviting her to work on direct semantic IO
in Warsaw.  It was the happiest moment of Feyerabend's life, and she quit her
new job just minutes later.

It was a validation of her serious way of life, her dry, unsparing focus.  She
knew that the semantic IO project was important, and that she had already made
valuable contributions.  Now she would do more.  She was taking a irrevocable
step forward, she knew she wouldn't lie awake again, wondering what she had done
for the world.   

That week, Feyerabend drank at dinner alone, and gave the cab driver a slip of
paper with her address on it.  Back in her strange apartment, she looked at
herself in the mirror and quieted old dysphoric feelings.  It was going to be
okay.

<hr>

Early Monday morning, the same driver picked Feyerabend up at her apartment.  She
fell asleep in the car, startling awake on arrival.  The driver laughed.  He
waited for Feyerabend to rub the sleep from her eyes in the parking lot, and led
her into a marble building under a glass atrium. 

After navigating through a number of progressively more drab hallways, the
driver showed Feyerabend into her new office.  It was a room with a bookshelf, a
coffee table, and a set of excellent digital windows.  Feyerabend spent a few
minutes organizing things.

Someone pushed open the door, and stuck in their head.

"Leah?" the person said.  He had a French accent.

"Hello," said Feyerabend, standing up.  

The person introduced himself as a researcher, and suggested that they go to a
meeting room.

Talk shifted quickly to their work.  The researcher said that he mostly worked
on the project's hardware.  That said, he told Feyerabend that he'd read her
proposals, and thought they were very well-considered. 

"Thanks," said Feyerabend.

"Do you have any insight into whether I'll be involved with the hardware aspect
of the project?" she asked.

"Well, you'll be working with the hardware almost constantly, that's why you're
here."

"It's not an area I have much expertise in," said Feyerabend, smiling as she
failed to hide her excitement.

"We've developed a fairly straightforward user interface for the CBI, I'll be
interested in your feedback on it."

"Definitely, yeah," said Feyerabend.

"Why don't we go take a look at it?"

"The CBI device?  Now?" 

"Sure," said the French researcher.  "Let's not waste any time.  There's some
safety training you'll have to do before you actually use it, though."

Feyerabend was very excited to spend a whole year with a medical-grade
computer-brain interface.  She had experience with transcranial magnetic
stimulation devices, and an Internet friend had once shown her a focused
ultrasound effector, but the project's focused ultrasound effector opened up a
whole new realm of possibilities. 

"Here it is!" said the French researcher, opening an unmarked door.  "We have a
few others, but this is the latest iteration."

The room contained a hacked-open MRI sled, stripped of the usual white medical
plastic. The focused ultrasound transducers were mounted on the inside of the
MRI tube, with copper wires leading to an insulated server closet.

As the researcher gave Feyerabend a tour of the machine's components, she
struggled to not complete his sentences.  As he was finishing up, a middle-aged
woman came into the room, saying "Hello!" loudly to announce herself.

"Leah, meet Addison," said the French researcher.

"Wow," said Feyerabend, shaking Addison's hand lightly.  "Great to meet to you
in person, finally."  

Feyerabend dimly recognized that Addison was attractive, something she had not
expected.  Feyerabend felt weirdly starstruck.  She was surprised, she took
chemical sterilization medication, drugs that she had initially purchased from
the darknet, but now had a prescription for.

It was quickly obvious why the organization that governed the direct semantic IO
project allocated so many resources to Addison: she had the almost over-the-top
enthusiasm necessary to effectively herd a diverse team of neuroscientists,
electrical engineers, and programmers.  As Addision outlined the plan for the next few weeks, Feyerabend was reminded of a busy but sociable dentist.

<hr>

That evening, Feyerabend treated herself to a celebratory meal at a restaurant
near her apartment.  Work seemed so perfect.  She would have the whole next week
to experiment with the CBI, under the supervision of Addison.  

As Feyerabend waited for her food, she used her phone to sign up for things:
fitness classes, a few expat meetup groups, a recurring vacation week, and
automated bill payments.  It was hard to imagine being unhappy ever again.

<hr>

Feyerabend brought a notebook to the CBI room the next morning.  Addison arrived
moments after.

"Ready?" said Addison.

"Yup."

"Okay.  I think Eric already has everything up and running.  Do you mind getting
into the calibration position for me?"

The inside of the new MRI scanner was almost silent.  

"Okay.  Here we go," said Addison's voice, from a speaker somewhere.
Feyerabend's heart was racing.

"We'll start with a test pulse...now."

Feyerabend experienced something entirely new.

"What was that?" laughed Feyerabend, knowing exactly what it was.  So it worked!
Of course it did.

"A qualia!" said Addison, also laughing.  "Weird, huh?"

What had she just experienced?   It was totally abstract: it didn't remind her
of anything.  

It was just there, and distinct.  The only thing that seemed comparable, in
terms of novelty, was when she had experienced her first orgasm around the age
of thirteen.  But this was a much quieter, more precise feeling, without
pleasure or anything, really.  

"Wow," said Feyerabend.  "Got it."

"Okay," said Addison.

"Okay, okay, let's call that one '0', just for fun," said Addision.  "Here comes
'1'."

Feyerabend felt an entirely different quiet little thing.

"And '0' again."

"Got it," said Feyerabend.  There was no question of confusing the two qualia.

Addison slowly transmitted a binary sequence of qualia encoding the ASCII
characters 'HI'. 

Feyerabend laughed gleefully.

<hr>

According to the French researcher, the focused ultrasound effector was capable
of producing at least a million unique qualia, consistently, thousands of times
a second.  Experiments had shown that qualia could be interpreted semantically,
thanks to the wonders of human cortical plasticity.

At lunch in the cafeteria, Addison explained the obvious: it was Feyerabend's
job to develop a useful set of symbol groundings for the qualia, so that they
could be used as a direct semantic communication channel between the computer
and brain, the first *useful* Computer Brain Interface.

"I'd love to tell you that this will just be a prototype, but my feeling is that
whatever you develop, it will be widely adopted.  I think you should try to
create a system with strong conceptual clarity and extensibility.  Does that
make sense to you?"

<hr>

The first thing Feyerabend developed was a set of qualia that could be used to
describe the formal structure of a language: words related to grammar, syntax,
and morphology.  A remote team of programmers concurrently helped her develop a
training program that taught users to associate the correct qualia with the
concepts that Feyerabend chose.

Feyerabend was then able to partially describe her plans for the qualia language
using qualia.  After using the training program, other researchers could go into
the focused ultrasound machine and recieve a very rapid and concise outline of
Feyerabend's language structure.

Feyerabend limited herself to nine hour workdays.  Feyerabend spent most of her
time inside of an MRI machine, thinking, and vocally telling the computer to
store her ideas as qualia codepoints.  Feyerabend didn't really feel lonely,
because she spent the day working with people that she respected. 

<hr>

Feyerabend began to develop a set of "qualia radicals", meant to span current
human experience and allow for almost limitless expansion.  The symbols
referring to morphological combination could be used with other radicals to
create new meaning.  She didn't have to worry about creating an overly verbose
language: the bandwidth of the CBI machine allowed the listener to almost
instantly comprehend a long sequence of qualia. 

<hr>
 
After Feyerabend completed the meta-language, the project started to feel silly.
It felt like she was developing some sort of child-like picture language, with a
naive word for everything.

Progress came to a rapid halt, as they spent hours in meetings using different
frameworks to describe the work they needed to do on the training framework.
yerabend started to feel fear and frustration, the first negative feelings she'd
experienced while working on the project.  

One of Feyerabend's articles of faith was that there was success in smallness.
But extending her qualia language to the real world: it would be messy.   She
felt inadequate.

Addision rescued her, interrupting a meeting that had dragged on past sunset.

"Okay, let's be real here, okay?" said Addision.  "What we're about to do now is
crazy ambitious.  But let's talk about it."

"What is this program going to look like?  We need to get people to associate
*things*, like, *trees*, with an arbitrary qualia.  What are we going to do?
Show them a picture of a tree and then fire the qualia?  That's basically how it
works now, right?"

There was a contemplative silence.

"Look, whatever we do, it's not going to be precise, or clean, or recursive.  We
need to map the world onto an a sixteen-bit codepoint plane.  It's going to get
messy."

Addison helped Feyerabend pick out a few of the programmers involved in the
project, and invited them to Warsaw.  Feyerabend them up in their own room, and
told them to build whatever they thought would work.

They did drugs, stayed up late, and played a lot in virtual reality.  But
progress started to happen.  A number of special displays, speakers, and
experimental inputs were mounted inside the MRI.  It looked ugly.  

Feyerabend used herself as a test subject. 

The first thing symbol they grounded was trees.  Videos, scents, images of
trees.  Feyerabend thought back to the trees in her backyard growing up, absract
syntax trees.  Trees.

The ocean.  Lake.  Void.  Heaven.  Heaven was kind of corny, rendered as some
Christian thing, incense.  More concepts.  Then the whole cycle again.

<hr>

It worked.  After a week with the training program, Feyerabend could perfectly
associate 256 qualia radicals with her own private version of each concept.
Real world, concrete concepts.  

Over the weekend, the programmers encoded qualia sequences for the book of
Genesis, songs by Rush, every bombastic thing they could find.  On Monday
morning, Feyerabend listened to them all, and cried.

"Guys, it's really amazing," she said.  "I heard it all in a like, a minute.
There aren't many words yet, but it's so clear.  I wish we had more machines so
you could try it out."

<hr>

Feyerabend was spending more and more time in the MRI machine, alone.  Now,
besides her thoughts and emotions, there was this third new voice, a quiet fast
whisper, the voice of the computer. 

<hr>

It was summer again.  To celebrate finishing the first round of experiments with
the CBI, the Warsaw project team took a trip to the ocean.  During the day, the
team avoided the beach.  Feyerabend spent the day on the ground floor of the
beach house, reading a book in a wicker chair.

Right before sunset, Addison invited Feyerabend for a walk down the beach.  It
was now empty except for a group of art students photographing a woman dressed
in a mermaid costume. 

Feyerabend and Addison took off their sandals, and walked through the surf.
Feyerabend's heart sung as seawater rushed under her feet.

Addision was talking about the paper they were working on.  It described the
successful use of the training program with outside volunteers, who were now
able to receive information from the machine almost instantly, like Feyerabend.  

The paper would show that the CBI users were able to perform knowledge-worker
tasks much faster than peers who did not have access to the CBI device.  

It would be a landmark paper.

"We can easily have it done by the end of the summer, I think, and present at
the ACM conference in Montreal this fall," said Addison.

Feyerabend was quiet.  It was obvious that Addison was saying this in
celebration, not looking for feedback.  

"I can't thank you enough, Leah," said Addison, after a minute.  

Feyerabend was silent.

"Leah, are you okay?  You've done...so much."

"I'm just tired," said Feyerabend.

Addison stopped walking, and grabbed Feyerabend's arm. She no longer had the
demeanor of an effective, social dentist, but looked more liked a confused
student staring at a problem on a whiteboard. 

"We've been working together for what, three years, in various forms?  Online.
Right?" said Addison.

"Yeah," said Leah.

.what.goes.here?

Feyerabend felt lonley when she got back to her room in the guest house.  She
knew that she had the option of drinking and playing cards with her colleagues
downstairs, but decided against it, and got in bed.  

She comforted herself with the fact that in her old age, it would probably be
possible to fall fully and deeply in love with a computer program.  She did
deserve love, she knew.  She fell asleep listening to the sound of waves,
thinking about Addison Chen.

