# Last Tango at Hyatt 48 Lex

Emily seemed impressed with the hotel room.  It was a summer evening in
Manhattan, and the room felt like an airport lounge, with floor to ceiling
windows and a minimalist sofa.  Emily sat on the bed, smiling at Drew. 

"Let's have a drink before dinner," said Drew. "Transition."

Emily and Drew had met on the Internet.  After a few months, they decided to
meet in New York, where Drew was working as an intern.  "It's so good to see
you!" Emily had said, as they hugged in Penn Station.

After vodka and orange juice, they got a taxi to Columbus Circle.

"I googled 'restaurants with best view'," said Drew.  "We're going to a place
called *Asiate*, in the Mandarin Oriental."

"Seems relevant to my praxis," said Emily, and laughed.  It was getting dark.

The light inside Asiate was cream-colored, with many reflective black and gold
surfaces, some a little smudged.  Emily was momentarily bothered when Drew sat
down at their table directly, without first offering her a chair.  

They went for a walk after dinner, stopping in front of a department store.
They were both a little tipsy.  Emily got up on her toes and kissed Drew. 

Back at the hotel room, Emily squatted down by the window to smoke.  Drew came
over to sit by her, touching.  Neither of them could sleep.  Drew watched
Emily's illuminated face, feeling calm.

Emily was sunny and pleasant the next morning.  The pair went to a convenience
store to get food, and then spent the afternoon in bed, watching the 'Sex and
the City' movie.

Drew eventually became anxious about evening plans.  He asked Emily if she
wanted to try to go to a club, maybe the Standard Hotel.  He felt compelled to
at least try.  Emily said she was up for it.

The cobblestone streets of Chelsea were quiet.  At Le Bain, they were turned
away, because Drew was underage and didn't have ID.  They switched gears,
getting a cab to a Taiwanese karaoke place in Chinatown.  

It became a special experience.  The KTV machine seemed to pick the perfect
songs: 'Fifteen' by Taylor Swift, 'Whatever You Like' by TI, 'The Moon
Represents My Heart' by Teresa Cheng.  Drew pulled Emily down on top of him, as
one of the waiters peeked into their room.  

They had much better sex that night.  "Just let me kiss you," said Emily.

On Sunday afternoon, Drew listened as Emily called her friend, an ex-lover and a
musician.  Emily talked to him about people in LA, New York, the sex they'd had.  

"Yeah...that was okay...last night was good...yeah...I came, I needed that," she
laughed.  Drew smiled anxiously at Emily.

On Monday morning, Drew went to midtown for the last day of his internship.

"I feel like a hotel wife," Emily texted.  

Drew's boss took him to breakfast at the Four Seasons, and unexpectedly told
Drew that he was quitting and going to a startup in DC, where there were better
resources for his autistic daughter.  "It's an opportunity to create some wealth
for my family," he said.
	
Drew got back to the hotel around 11AM, and told Emily about his breakfast,
wondering if she cared.

"It was so strange, having another adult talking with me like an adult.  It felt
good."  Drew was exhausted.   He got into bed, making eye contact with a smiling
Emily.  It seemed like she cared.

There was scattered rain.  The next afternoon Emily would fly back to LA, and
Drew would drive home to Cleveland.  	

Drew took Emily to see Grand Central.  He wanted her to see it, the blue ceiling
and the constellations were important to him.  

"You seem to expect some sort of reaction out of me," said Emily.  

Drew felt saddened.  He could tell that Emily was upset about something.  He
thought: it's happening again.  

Emily didn't want to go out to dinner.  Neither did Drew, really.  Emily kept
rubbing her nose in short bursts, packing her bags for the next day.  

"Are you okay?" asked Drew. 

"I just feel like," Emily said, agitated, "that to you, I'm just an experience." 

Drew thought back to the last person he'd met in New York, who called him a
psychopath.  He was sick of that.  He wanted Emily to tell him exactly how he
bothered her, so that he could change.  

She shook her head *no*, with tears in her eyes.  

"I'm going to go exercise," said Drew, and went down to the hotel gym.  He didn't
have running shoes, so he ran barefoot until the treadmill ripped skin from his
toes.  Then he went back up to the room for a shower.

After getting dressed, he sat down on the side of the bed. 

"I have a whole list of things to say," said Drew.

"Okay.  Write it down," said Emily.

"I want to say them...don't say anything while I say them or I'll never finish."

Emily said "okay" and let him talk.  His list didn't make much sense, she
thought.  She could tell that a part of it was quoted from his notebook, because
it sounded displaced, or because she had read it when she was alone in the room
that morning. 

Emily lay in bed feeling confused and a bit bored.  She thought about her ex,
Nathaniel.  He was in his thirties, and had once yelled at her for writing at
his kitchen table, because it was made of unfinished wood.  She started to cry,
breathing through her mouth.

Drew finished talking.  He felt a bit better.

They went downstairs so Emily could smoke.  Emily and Drew were both starting to
get exasperated.

"I'm just not deeply in love with you!" Drew finally said, pacing around a
granite bench.

"I'm not deeply in love with you either!" said Emily, and they both grinned.

"This is really good!" said Emily.  

The next morning, they spent a while in bed, talking about the night before.
They had both slept well.

As Drew packed, he realized that he couldn't find his watch, and started to
panic internally.  Emily was packed.  

"Don't worry, I'm sure you'll find it," she said.

Drew felt like his life would never change, like he'd always be in these
situations.

Finally he looked in the hotel gym.  It was there.

In the lobby, Drew and Emily kissed and said goodbye with warmth.  

Drew saw Emily laugh charmingly as the concierge helped her into a cab.   
