#  Summer of Entropy

An one-legged dachshund jumped over Chris's feet, chasing a group of sleek,
beautiful dogs.  The dogs were running in circles around the bar's veranda,
wriggling between wooden benches and tables full of young people.  As Chris
turned to watch the dogs, he caught the eyes of a skinny, dark-haired woman, and
smiled at her.

"Hi, are you here for the tech meetup?" Chris asked.

"Yeah," she said.  She seemed happy to talk, and in just a few minutes, as it
sometimes happens, they were talking about psychiatric drugs.

"I feel a lot more social at these things when I'm on Klonopin," the woman said.

"Lexapro was like that for me, I think, it helped me be social," said Chris.

The dogs came around again, and Chris stuck out his hand.  The dachshund stopped
to give it a lick.

"I raised a dog like this once, when I was on Lexapro," said Chris. 

"I tried Lexapro, it had weird side effects."

"Really?  If anything the side effects were good, for me."

"Oh yeah?" she said.  "Like sexual stuff?"

"Yeah."

Chris took another look at the woman: she was wearing an eggshell blue blouse,
and was sitting carefully on the edge of the damp bench.

"What?"

"The sexual stuff?  It, uh, made it harder to have an orgasm, but not in a bad
way.  I would just have like, super orgasms," said Chris.

"Anyways," he continued,  "Lexapro worked out really well for me."

The woman introduced herself as Elkie.  Chris confirmed the spelling with her,
E-L-K-I-E, and went to get another beer.

When he returned, someone was in his place, talking to Elkie about iOS
development. 

"I'll show you my app," Elkie said.  "I really need feedback on my app."

"Of course," the guy said.  He looked fresh from work, like everyone else,
holding a draft beer in the evening sunlight.

Elkie turned to Chris, concern in her eyes.

"If I show you my app, you have to promise not to steal the idea.  I've been
working super hard on it." 

Fuck, thought Chris.  For fifteen minutes, he half-heartedly participated in an
earnest, clumsy discussion of Swift's type system, before finally suggesting
that they go inside for another drink.

The air inside the bar was cave-like and sweet.  Elkie and Chris waited for the
bartender's attention.

"The last time I was at this meetup," said Elkie, "I was with this guy from
Tinder."

"Oh yeah?"

"I was going to swipe left on him, but I noticed he had like fifteen thousand
twitter followers."  Chris gave her a disapproving look, smiling.

"How was he?"

"He was okay, he was Jewish."

"Are you Jewish?" asked Chris.  He looked at her again: obviously she was.

It had taken Chris a few semesters of college to realize that the girls who
talked to him at parties were usually of a certain type: Jewish, from New York
or Long Island, usually wealthy. 

"I grew up in a Hasidic family, but now I'm estranged," said Elkie. 

"Woah, I'm sorry.  Losing your family is really rough." 

"It's okay.  Are you Jewish?"

"No, not really," said Chris.  "Hasidic?  Is that like Orthodox?"

"Like Orthodox, but like a cult, you know, in South Williamsburg?  They're
awful.  Honestly, I wish the Nazis had finished the job."

"What do you mean by finished the job," said Chris.

"Almost all of the Hasids were killed in the Holocaust, but some of them got
away to Brooklyn."

"Wow, Jesus.  I'm sorry," said Chris.  His skin felt cold.

They got their mixed drinks and sat down in a large circular booth, legs
touching.

Chris felt confident.  It was summer, and he was wearing at least $1000 worth of
clothes.  He could tell that they wanted to talk about the same things.  They
both had exes who lived in castle-like apartments on the Upper East Side, they
both liked department stores, tech events, and meeting people. 

Suddenly there was a burst of light: Elkie's umbrella was on fire.  Chris
reached over for a carafe of water and doused the flames.

"Oh my God," said Elkie, fanning herself. 

"The candle," said Chris, pointing at an extinguished tealight hydroplaning
across the table.

The smell of burnt plastic attracted some other people from the meetup to the
booth.  Elkie thanked Chris repeatedly, and Chris felt satisfied with himself.

"Are you going to tell us your app idea?" asked the guy from earlier, when
things had calmed down.

"Okay, okay, yeah," said Elkie.  The faces of the other programmers hovered in
the darkness.  After talking about the guy with 15,000 followers and her gay
best friend, Elkie explained that her idea was a dating app that let gay people
set up their straight friends.  The group laughed, and started asking clever
questions, all with the implicit assumption that this app, the actual software
of it, would never exist.

"I see an issue," said Chris.  "What's the incentive for the gay matchmakers?
Do they get to see the messages or something?"

Elkie ignored Chris's question, intent on making her case for the app.

"I really think it would work if the gay matchmakers got to see the chat logs,"
said Chris.

"What about bi guys?" asked a man with red hair.  "Where do they fit in?"

"I would never sleep with a bi guy," said Elkie.

"That's something I've heard a few times," Chris said, not adding *from Jewish
women*.  "I don't get it."

"They get fucked in the ass," said Elkie.  "That grosses me out, I couldn't date
a man like that.  It's just my preference."

After not saying anything for a few minutes, Chris scooted over to talk with
Stephan, a talented .NET developer Chris recognized.

He watched Elkie out of the corner of his eye.  She was talking to a new guy, a
guy wearing a summer suit.  She was flirting with him, too.  Probably making
more of an effort, Chris could tell.

If she knew where I worked, thought Chris.  He stewed for a while, suddenly
feeling dehydrated.  It would be dark soon.

Elkie was talking about her app again.  The guy in the summer suit was eating it
up.

*Stupid*, Chris thought, as he stood up from the booth, grabbing his unnecessary
Patagonia jacket, and *typical*.  He said goodbye to Stephan, and walked home.

<hr>

Chris worked at Facebook.  He had interned there the previous summer, and now
was a full time employee, arriving at the office later and later each morning.
After sitting down at his desk, he typically procrastinated by reading his
newsfeed until he couldn't stand it anymore, until he was angry at all the
little bits of content stealing his time, his summer. 

"A Woman Jumped to Her Death From a Rooftop Bar, and People Kept Partying,"
Chris read.  One of his coworkers had shared the article, saying something about
tech culture.  Confusingly, there was a picture of Elkie.

He remembered Elkie adding him as a friend on Facebook.  Development build
issue?  He opened Elkie's Facebook profile and the article simultaneously.  More
pictures of Elkie.

Elkie had jumped off a roof during a corporate party.  Suicide.  She was dead.
Fuck.

Chris went to send the article to a close friend, but decided against it.
Triggering.  Chris understood what Elkie had done, the seduction of a verdant
rooftop with waist-high barriers.  He told himself that it was important not to
use this event as an excuse for a stupid existential crisis.

He terminated his session, and went to the micro-kitchen for a smoothie.  It was
cooler there.

He read more about Elkie on his phone: it was unclear if she was 'connected'
with the rooftop event.  She had asked a bartender to point out the eastern
ledge of the roof. 

People were posting Elkie's wall, praying and asking for the contact information
of her family.

Chris went back to his computer.

He ssh'd into a virtual machine, a machine left over from the previous summer,
when Chris had accidentally discovered a way to view the chat history of any
user.  He was pretty sure it didn't leave any sort of audit log, but even if it
did, Chris would probably be okay.

He ran a script to hydrate Elkie's messages from the search index, and opened it
in a buffer.

Chris skimmed through emotional messages sent to Elkie that morning, when the
story had dropped.

He slowed down to read messages from earlier that month: Elkie messaging a tech
guy saying "I don't really know you, but is it okay if we talk?  Feeling low,"
at two AM.  No response.  Someone else responded to a similar message, saying
that he was in Italy for a conference.  Elkie told him about her problems
finding a new apartment. 

Elkie hadn't seemed *that* fucked up, thought Chris.  The conversation about the
anti-depressants: that was a pretty typical ice breaker, like talking about
astrological signs or personality types.  The Nazi thing though.  Finish the
job.

<hr>

That evening, Chris met an old friend in front of her apartment in Brooklyn.  He
was buying some Ritalin from her, to use that weekend at Whole Foods.  He felt
very far away from things.

"How are you?" Justine asked, after placing the small pills in Chris's hand.

"Uh, kind of weird," said Chris.

"Why, what's up?"

Justine sat down on her stoop, looking up at Chris quizzically.

"Someone I know killed themselves by jumping off a roof," said Chris, still
standing.

"At a fancy party?  I think I saw this."

Earlier, in a bodega, Chris had noticed that the papers were going with the
Hasidic angle, not the tech angle.

"Yeah, you probably did.  I met her at a programming thing."

"That's messed up.  You okay?"

Chris felt a stab of affection for his well-dressed friend, who had once told
him that they would one day rekindle their romantic relationship in a different
city, maybe Hong Kong, when they were older.

"Yeah.  I didn't know her that well, it's just...distracting." 

"I know, very disorienting.  How old was she?"

"Thirty, I think." 

"Oh.  Not married, right?  It seems like women start having problems at that
age, like serious mental health problems."

Chris made a face.

"I really hope that's not how it works," he said.  "That's so bleak."

"Yeah, but the whole 'body positivity, everyone is beautiful' thing is such
bullshit, right?" said Justine.

Chris didn't say anything.

"I look at Korean Instagram models, I know I'm not beautiful," said Justine.  "I
accept my body, I don't love it.  I'm not deluded."

Chris was surprised to hear Justine saying these things.

"I mean, isn't beauty a pretty arbitrary thing?" he said.

"I guess, but so what?"

Chris was starting to feel really weird.  He recognized in Justine something he
was starting to see in a lot of his peers: a rapid onset of entropy, a cascade
of shit getting real, an unravelling of the fantasy world of youth.  Chris felt
like a loser half the time, and he was making $120,000 a year.  How did Elkie
feel?  Her app development 'company': brutal.  Life made a lot more sense if you
thought about it brutally.

"I don't know that I agree with you," said Chris. "I would rather people be
happy.  It's all in our heads anyways."

"I mean," he said, "I'm a computer person. I want to fix things."

Justine laughed.  "Good fucking luck," she said. 

After they finished talking, Chris decided to walk home.  Even though it was
dark, he quickly began to sweat.

Chris stopped at a nice bar and drank two draft beers, thinking.  The bar
calmingly, inspiringly neoliberal, with a sense of weight.  As Chris waited to
close out his tab, a woman who looked kind of like Kirsten Dunst said 'hi', and
asked him how he was doing.
