# Summer of KMS

An one-legged dachshund jumped over Chris's feet, chasing a group of sleek,
beautiful dogs. The dogs were running in circles around the bar's veranda,
wriggling between wooden benches and tables full of young people. As Chris
turned to watch the dogs, he caught the eyes of a skinny, dark-haired woman, and
smiled.

"Hi, are you here for the tech meetup?" Chris asked.

"Yeah," she said.  She seemed happy to talk, and in just a few minutes, they
were talking about psychiatric drugs.

"I feel a lot more social at these things when I'm on Klonopin," the woman said.

"Lexapro was like that for me, I think, it helped me be social," said Chris.

The dogs came around again, and Chris stuck out his hand.  The dachshund stopped
to give it a lick.

"I raised a dog like this when I was on Lexapro, actually," said Chris.

Chris took another look at the woman.  She was wearing an eggshell blue blouse,
sitting carefully on the edge of the damp bench.

"Lexapro has weird side effects," she said.

"It was okay for me."

The woman introduced herself as Elkie.  Chris confirmed the spelling with her,
E-L-K-I-E, and went to get another beer.

When he returned, someone was in his place. Elkie was talking to him about
the iOS app she was developing.

Elkie turned to Chris.

"If I show you my app, you have to promise not to steal the idea.  I've been
working super hard on it."

Fuck, thought Chris.  For fifteen minutes, he half-heartedly participated in a
clumsy discussion of Swift's type system, before he finally suggested that they
go inside for another drink.

The air inside the bar was cave-like and sweet.  Chris and Elkie waited for the
bartender's attention.

"The last time I was at this meetup," said Elkie, "I was with this guy from
Tinder."

"Oh yeah?"

"I was going to swipe left on him, but I noticed he had like fifteen thousand
twitter followers."  Chris gave her a disapproving look, smiling.

"How was he?"

"He was okay, he was Jewish."

"Are you Jewish?" asked Chris.  He looked at her again: obviously she was.

It had taken Chris a few semesters of college to realize that the girls who
talked to him at parties were usually Jewish, from New York or Long Island, and
often wealthy.

"I grew up in a Hasidic family, but now I'm estranged," said Elkie.

"Wow, I'm sorry.  Losing your family is really rough."

"It's okay.  Are you Jewish?"

"No, not really," said Chris.  "Hasidic?  Is that like Orthodox?"

"Like Orthodox, but a cult, you know?  They're awful.  Honestly, I wish the
Nazis had finished the job."

"What do you mean by finished the job," said Chris.

"The Nazis killed almost all of the Hasids, but some of them got away to
Brooklyn."

"Jesus.  I'm sorry," said Chris.  His skin felt cold.

They got their mixed drinks and sat down in a large circular booth, legs
touching.

Chris felt confident.  It was summer, and he was wearing at least $1000 worth of
clothes.  Conversation was easy: they both had exes who lived in castle-like
apartments on the Upper East Side, they both liked department stores, tech
events, and meeting people.

There was a burst of light.  Chris realized that Elkie's umbrella was on fire,
and reached over for a carafe of water to douse the flames.

"Oh my God," said Elkie, fanning herself, when she understood what had happened.

"The candle," said Chris, pointing at an extinguished tealight hydroplaning
across the table.

The smell of burnt plastic attracted some other people from the meetup.  Elkie
thanked Chris repeatedly as they joined the booth, and Chris felt satisfied with
himself.

"Are you going to tell us your app idea?" said the guy from earlier, when
things had calmed down.

"Okay, okay, yeah," said Elkie.  The faces of the other programmers hovered in
the darkness.  Elkie explained that her idea was a dating app that let gay people
set up their straight friends.  The group laughed, and started asking clever
questions, all with the implicit assumption that this app, the actual software
of it, would never exist.

"I see an issue," said Chris.  "What's the incentive for the gay matchmakers?
Do they get to see the messages or something?"

Elkie ignored Chris's question.

"I really think it would work if the gay matchmakers got to see the chat logs,"
said Chris.

"What about bi guys?" asked a man with red hair.  "Where do they fit in?"

"I would never sleep with a bi guy," said Elkie.

"That's something I've heard a few times," Chris said, not adding *from Jewish
women*.  "I don't get it."

"They get fucked in the ass," said Elkie.  "That grosses me out, I couldn't date
a man like that.  It's just my preference."

After the banter dragged on for a while, Chris scooted over to talk with
Stephan, a talented .NET developer he'd met at the previous meetup.  They talked
about the Mono runtime environment.

When Stephan left for the bathroom, Chris realized that Elkie was talking to a
new guy, a really normal looking guy wearing a suit.  She was flirting with him,
too.

If she knew where I worked, thought Chris.  He felt dehydrated.  He decided that
he'd leave at eleven PM if nothing changed.

At eleven, Chris abruptly stood up from the booth.  Elkie was telling the guy
about her app.   *Stupid*, Chris thought, grabbing his unnecessary Patagonia
jacket, and *typical*.  He said goodnight to Stephan, and walked home.

<hr>

Chris worked at Facebook.  He was arriving at the office later and later each
morning, and typically spent a few hours reading his newsfeed, procrastinating
until he couldn't stand it anymore.  He was angry at all the little bits of
content stealing his time, his summer.

"A Woman Jumped to Her Death From a Rooftop Bar, and People Kept Partying,"
Chris read.  One of his coworkers had shared the article, saying something about
tech culture.  There was a picture of Elkie.

Chris remembered Elkie adding him as a friend on Facebook.  Was it a development
build issue?  He opened Elkie's Facebook profile and the article.  More pictures
of Elkie.

Elkie had jumped off a roof during a corporate party.  Suicide.  She was dead.
Fuck.

Chris went to send the article to a close friend, but decided against it.
Triggering.  He felt like he understood what Elkie had done, the seduction of
that rooftop.  He told himself that it was important not to use this event as an
excuse for a stupid existential crisis.

He terminated his session, and went to the micro-kitchen for a smoothie.  It was
cooler there.

He read more about Elkie on his phone: it was unclear if she was 'connected'
with the rooftop event.  She had asked a bartender to point out the eastern
ledge.

People were posting on Elkie's Facebook wall, asking for the contact information of
her family.

Chris went back to his computer.

He ssh'd into a virtual machine.  The machine was left over from his internship
last summer, when he had accidentally discovered a way to view the chat history
of any user.  He was pretty sure it didn't leave any sort of audit log.

He ran a script to retrieve Elkie's messages from the search index, and opened
it in a buffer.

He slowed down to read messages from earlier that month: Elkie messaging a tech
guy saying "I don't really know you, but is it okay if we talk?  Feeling low,"
at two AM.  No response.  Someone else responded to a similar message, saying
that he was in Italy for a conference.  Elkie told him about her problems
finding a new apartment.

Elkie hadn't seemed *that* fucked up, thought Chris.  The conversation about the
anti-depressants: that was a pretty typical ice breaker.  The only thing that
was weird was the Nazi thing.

Finish the job, thought Chris.

<hr>

That evening, Chris met an old friend in front of her apartment in Brooklyn.  He
was buying some Ritalin from her, to use that weekend at Whole Foods.

"How are you?" Justine asked, after placing the small pills in Chris's hand.

"Uh, kind of weird," said Chris.

"Why, what's up?"

Justine sat down on her stoop, looking up at Chris.

"Someone I know killed themselves by jumping off a roof," said Chris, still
standing.

"At a fancy party?  I think I saw this."

"Yeah, you probably did.  I met her at a programming thing."

"That's messed up.  You okay?"

Chris felt a stab of affection for his well-dressed friend.  She had once told
him that they would one day rekindle their romantic relationship in a different
city, like Hong Kong, when they were older.

"Yeah.  I didn't know her that well, it's just...distracting."

"I know, very disorienting.  How old was she?"

"Thirty, I think."

"Oh.  Not married, right?  It seems like women start having problems at that
age, like serious mental health problems."

Chris made a face.

"I really hope that's not how it works," he said.  "That's fucking bleak."

Justine didn't say anything for a moment.

"The whole 'body positivity' thing is such bullshit, right?" she said.

Chris didn't say anything.

"Like 'everyone is beautiful'.  I look at Korean Instagram models, I know I'm
not 'beautiful'," continued Justine.  "I accept my body, I don't love it.  I'm
not deluded."

Chris was surprised to hear Justine talking like this.

"I mean, isn't beauty a pretty arbitrary thing?" he said.

"Yeah, but so what?"

For the first time, Chris recognized in Justine a certain flatness, a flatness
that he was starting to see in a lot of his peers.  It was a rapid onset of
entropy, the breakdown of a fantasy world.  Chris was making $120,000 a year, and
he still felt like a loser half the time.  How did Elkie feel?  Her app
development 'company': brutal.

"I don't know that I agree with you," said Chris. "I would rather people be
happy.  It's all in our heads anyways."

"I mean," he said, "I'm a computer person, I want to fix things."

Justine laughed.  "Good fucking luck," she said.

After Justine went back inside, Chris decided to walk home.  He stopped at a
nice bar, and drank two draft beers, thinking.  He felt calmed by the bar's
atmosphere, and took his laptop out.

As Chris waited to close out his tab, a woman who looked kind of like Kirsten
Dunst rubbed her thighs for a moment and asked him what he was doing on his
computer.
